assumed species = A species assignment that has been made without a formal species identification assay.

species assay result = The result of a species identification assay as a species name.

   then there will be several 'species evidence codes' which we'll
   need to discuss more widely, but some values for this might be 'no
   assay performed', 'assayed unambiguously', 'conflicting assays'
   (for example if assay results said it was A. arabiensis AND
   A. gambiae M form)...

reproductive status = e.g. virgin, mated, blood-fed, gravid (sorry can't think of a good description)

submission date = The date on which the data was submitted to VectorBase.

public release date = The date on or after which the data was made available to the public on VectorBase.

household ID = An identifying (but ideally anonymized) name or code for a household from which a collection was made.

  It would be ideal if all VBcv terms used in columns L-Z of
  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AiHJk7ao3qFUdDFESklGcG5TRlJSdjVzNTg0OFZZdEE#gid=6
  (a_collection sheet) had a common parent term so the loading code knows that they
  are characteristics of the collection site and not the collection itself (act of collection).

species identification assay = see genotype assay, phenotype assay already in VBcv

project external ID = An ID of the format YYYY-AuthorSurname-Keyword(s) - should be unique with respect to all VectorBase population data submissions.

sample external ID = A sample ID (originating in ISA-Tab Sample Name column). It need not follow any formatting rules, but it should be unique within a data submission.

assay external ID = An assay ID (originating in ISA-Tab Assay Name column). It need not follow any formatting rules, but it should be unique within the entire ISA-Tab data submission.

project stock link = A cvterm used internally within VectorBase to link projects with stocks.

description = A cvterm used internally within VectorBase to attach descriptions to entities.

comment = A cvterm used internally within VectorBase to attach comments to entities.

placeholder = A cvterm used internally within VectorBase as a placeholder term.

person = A cvterm used internally within VectorBase in the Chado contact table.

assay creates sample = The sample attached to the assay has been generated by the assay (e.g. a field collection or a selective breeding experiment).

assay uses sample = The sample attached to the assay has been used in an assay (e.g. as source material for DNA analysis, phenotype determination).

has genomic variation data = A cvterm used internally within VectorBase to tag samples that have had genomic variation data loaded via VCF files into the Ensembl variation database

  There may be better ways to do this - if there are easy ways to link
  to genome browser locations or transcripts with a particular
  individual's (e.g. sample's) allele tracks magically turned on, then
  maybe we need to attach the relevant info to the samples
  (e.g. ensembl variation sample ID).


protocol component = A piece of equipment, software or other component of a protocol which is always the same from assay to assay.

#
# hack alert!!
#
protocol parameter group 1 = A cvterm used internally within VectorBase Chado to group otherwise identical parameter values (e.g. multiple insecticides).
protocol parameter group 2 = see above
protocol parameter group 3 = see above

